Tutorial: How to rename events (#9703)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/how-to-rename-events.mdx

---
title: How to rename events
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
author:

>   - bijan-boustani

Reviewer: You'll need to add yourself to `authors.json` for this to work! (That's why the build is breaking.)

Your `profile_id` is `31729`

> date: 2024-10-22

Reviewer 2: dont forget to update this before merging :)

tags:
  - actions
  - events
---

> **Estimated reading time:** 3 minutes ☕☕

Reviewer 2: nice. good addition

> **tl;dr** Use [Actions](/docs/data/actions). Start capturing events with the new name, and then create an Action to group it with the existing event.

Reviewer 2: I also like this

> **tl;dr** Use [Actions](/docs/data/actions). Start capturing events with the new name, and then create an Action to group it with the existing event.

Reviewer 2: Our current style is to lowercase these thigns (i.e dont treat them as proper nouns). Can you fix in the rest of the tutorial too please
```suggestion
**tl;dr** Use [Actions](/docs/data/actions). Start capturing events with the new name, and then create an action to group it with the existing event.
```

## Capturing events

Once your PostHog account is up and running, you'll start capturing events. Some events are [autocaptured](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture). And you can also [capture custom events](/docs/product-analytics/capture-events).

You can find all your events in the [Data management](/data-management/actions) tab in the left navigation.

> But once an event is captured, there is no option to rename it!

Reviewer 2: I dont think this intro adds much value. Instead, I think we should write something on scenarios when you probably want to rename events/ use this

> ## Grouping with actions

Reviewer 2: maybe this section should be called ## How to create an action

The solution is to start sending events with the new name, and then create an Action. Actions are a way of combining several related events into one. You can match both the old and new event name and get a fluent transition in your insights, without losing historical data.

Start by clicking the "New action" button in the [Actions](/data-management/actions) tab in Data management. Then, select the "from event or pageview" option.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/create_first_action_light_63d4f8aa42.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/create_first_action_dark_bb2ec7a894.png"
    alt="Create an action"
    classes="rounded"
/>

> For example, you can rename your sign up call to action button text from "Try for Free" to "Pricing + Signup". And those would create two separate events. But you can use Match groups to find both of those events and see them as one "Clicked Sign Up CTA" action.

Reviewer 2: Re event names: our currenty style is snake_case e.g. user_signed_up. Can we keep this consistent? We had a few users complain in the past that we were inconsistent

> <ProductVideo

Reviewer 2: Video looks good! For future videos, dont forget to use the posthog preset. I wouldnt both changing this now though

---
title: How to rename events
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
author:
  - bijan-boustani
date: 2024-10-22
tags:
  - actions
  - events
---

**Estimated reading time:** 3 minutes ☕☕

**tl;dr** Use [actions](/docs/data/actions). Start capturing events with the new name, and then create an action to group it with the existing event.

## Managing events

After you've started capturing events, you can find them in the [data management](https://us.posthog.com/data-management/actions) tab in the left navigation.

For example, you might have an existing event named `register_button_clicked` and you want to rename it to `signup_button_clicked`.

> But once an event is logged, there is no option to rename it!

Author: I agree that headings for intros look a little weird. I was trying to figure out a way to keep that initial "tl;dr" section but to keep some delineation between the content.

I'm going to try a simple `---` in the Markdown to see what a `<hr />` looks like visually. Or if it turns out the heading looks better we can always revert the change.

## How to create an action

> The solution is to start sending events with the new name, and then create an action. Actions are a way of combining several related events into one. You can match both the old and new event name and get a fluent transition in your insights, without losing historical data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Actions are a way of combining several related events into one. You can match both the old and new event name and get a smooth transition in your insights, without losing historical data.
```

> Start by clicking the "New action" button in the [actions](/data-management/actions) tab in data management. Then, select the "from event or pageview" option.

Author: TODO: Fix this link too.

> Start by clicking the "New action" button in the [actions](https://us.posthog.com/data-management/actions) tab in data management. Then, select the "from event or pageview" option.

Reviewer 2: I prefer to bold buttons titles instead of putting in apostrophes. It makes it clearer
```suggestion
Start by clicking the "New action" button in the [actions tab](https://us.posthog.com/data-management/actions) in your PostHog dashboard. Then, select the **From event or pageview** option.
```

Author: Agreed. 👍 

Fixed in 5652e314920e3e81cdf183f5b1f7958a4f785904

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/create_first_action_light_63d4f8aa42.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/create_first_action_dark_bb2ec7a894.png"
    alt="Create an action"
    classes="rounded"

> />

Reviewer 2: We also sometimes use https://screen.studio/ to record demos for more complicated flows. This is probably too simple for it though

> Now you can take the two separate events (`register_button_clicked` and `signup_button_clicked`) and combine them. Match groups allow you to find both of those events and see them as one "Sign Up CTA Clicked" action.

Reviewer 2: It's probably worht it to record this as a video
```suggestion
Next, in **Match Group #1**, click **Other events** and select the old event name. Then click **+ Add match group** and add the new event name.

Lastly, give your action a name and press **Save**

Now you can take the two separate events (`register_button_clicked` and `signup_button_clicked`) and combine them. Match groups allow you to find both of those events and see them as one "Sign Up CTA Clicked" action.
```

Author: Sounds good. I just downloaded Screen Studio and I'll give it a shot.

Author: I ended up recording hundreds of versions today, but I feel like I finally landed on a decent solution.

I started with a longer video including context and narration, but it felt heavy-handed for what we needed to show here. Then I thought maybe gifs would work well, but the file sizes were surprisingly massive.

So I ended up with some short embedded videos that show off the core action matching feature and it seems to work pretty well.

> For this example, you can create two match groups and find the events by name using the "Other events" option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to rename an event `register_button_clicked`, we group it with the new event name `signup_button_clicked` and create an action called `Sign Up CTA Clicked`.
```

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/create_action_light_b6e41e971c.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/create_action_dark_d81043846b.png"
    alt="Create action page with match groups"
    classes="rounded"
/>

> ## Seeing the results

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Creating insights with your action
```

After you click the "Save" button, check the matching events section at the bottom of the page to verify it's matching both events.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/matching_events_light_7e62c3b84a.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/matching_events_dark_0061946f67.png"
    alt="View matching events"
    classes="rounded"

> />

Reviewer 2: This should go in the section above

> Lastly, you can create an [insight](/docs/product-analytics/insights) with an action just like you would do with a single event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, you can create an [insight](/docs/product-analytics/insights) with an action just like you normally would. Under event name, select your new action.
```
